# Glowcloud 

This repo contains code for a wearable technology project I 
have been working on off and on for the better part of a decade, now 
finally under some #$%*& version control. 

The original glow cloud build was during October 2015, using a stock color 
changing algorithm to create slowly shifting multicolored lights. In 2016 
I added a simple switch and implemented logic so that the cloud could 
change to particular colors on demand, so that I could play an NPC in a 
LARP run by friends. The cloud has since been to National Computer Science 
Education Week at a local elementary school for a number of years, where I 
would in many cases live demonstrate changing the colors addressed by the 
switch logic, explaining in broad terms what I was doing, for classes of 
first and second graders. It has been mood lighting when I taught research 
instruction classes at a college on and around Halloween. It has also been 
worn as cosplay to Welcome To Nigh Vale Live shows, worn while doing voter 
standouts holding campaign signs for local elections, and worn to give out 
candy to trick-or-treaters. 

The wiring got some additional strain relief and a soldering repair 
courtesy of a friend, in Fall 2022, while I had a broken arm and was 
unable to solder on my own. That brings us to this fall, when I'm finally 
bringing what were many different versions of the script into one place in 
this repo. 

# ALL HAIL THE GLOW CLOUD

Inspired by https://www.welcometonightvale.com/, Glowcloud is a hat made 
to imitate the look of THE GLOW CLOUD, a recurring character which is an 
animate multicolored clowd with mind control powers. This repo does not 
include an implementation of forcing others to intone ALL HAIL, dropping 
of dead animals from THE GLOW CLOUD, or running for school board. (I do 
have plastic animals for implementing the dead animals, some day, if I 
want, but it is a departure from the aesthetic of the cloud by itself, 
which is why I've never implemented this. I may just start handing out 
plastic animals some time while wearing it.) 

# Hardware

Glowcloud runs on an Adafruit Gemma board, which is wired to an 
addressable LED light string. The light string's colored wires are covered 
in white duct tape and affixed with wire to the top of a white sun hat. A 
microswitch is wired to the board to provide access to switching logic, 
and is housed in a 3D printed holder from [add later]. 

# Costume build

Version 1.0 of the costume build was made of tissue paper, tape, spray 
adhesive, and polyfill. It was heavy and hot. 

Version 2.0 is built on a white canvas sun hat. Atop the hat is a clump of 
wide wired ribbon in white with iridescent strands, arranged in loops and 
cinched with white pipe cleaner to resemble the puffs of a cloud. The 
armature this makes extends past the edges of the sun hat and gives a 
height of roughly ten inches above the sun hat at some points. The ribbon 
structure is topped with a layer of white tulle remnant with tiny 
crystalline plastic dots on it, which is tucked around the ribbon in some 
spots, trailing loose in some spots, and adjustable as needed. White pipe 
cleaners affix the armature to the hat in some spots, and little loops of 
wire attach it in other spots. 
